ROUND ONE QUESTIONS

1. The summer of 1977 was a major year for personal computers. In that year
three famous PC's were introduced. What were they ?

2. Ethernet was named a networking standard in 1980 in a joint public
announcement by three famous computer companies. What were their names ?

3. According to the Computer Industry Almanac, California has the most
computer companies in America, with over 38% of the total. Massachusetts is
number 2. Within plus or minus 5%, what is Massachusetts' share of the
nation's computer companies ?

4. In 1980, one of the largest public stock offerings of modern times was made
by a computer company. The size of the offering was the largest since the Ford
Motor Company's in 1956. What was the computer company?

5. Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak are best known for the Apple computer they
developed. But they also teamed up to design a popular arcade game for Atari.
What was the name of the game?  Was it, Space Invaders, Breakout, Asteroids,
or Space Wars?

6. What now defunct computer company used animal as part of an
advertising campaign ? 

7. The abacus was one of the earliest counting devices, probably originating
in Babylonia and spreading to other countries. Of China, Greece, and Japan,
which received the abacus first? 

8. In the past, the Chinese used the abacus to do their national census. They
stopped using it and replaced it with a computer. When did the Chinese
dump the abacus in favor of computers -- was it 1972, 1977, or 1982?

9. In 1989, 16% of NeXT, Inc. was sold for $100M to what company?

10. In the comic strip "Doonesbury", Mark learns to program a computer. What
computer does Mark use in "Doonesbury"?

11. In the comic strip "Bloom County", the character Oliver Wendall Jones has a
personal computer. What is the name of that computer?

12. Again in "Bloom County", before getting his Banana Junior, Oliver Wendall
Jones owned another computer. What was it?

13. The National Computer Conference reached its peak as a trade show during
the 1980s. And in its best year 97,000 people attended. What year was that?
Was it 1983, 1985, or 1987?

14. Comdex has become one of the dominant trade shows in the computer
industry. In what year was the first comdex held? Was it 1978, 1980, or 1982?

ROUND TWO QUESTIONS

1. During the development of computers in the 1930s and 1940s, what was not
used for storing computer data: old movie film, aluminum tape, or snake
scales?

2. The Cray II supercomputer has a nickname inspired by the froth created in
its liquid cooling system. What is that nickname?

3. At least three computer companies were named after their founders but
these founders no longer work for the companies. Can you name three of those
companies?

4. Computer company CEO's are famous for their job hopping. I'll name the
succession of computer companies worked for -- you name the CEO. 
	a. IBM, Shugart, Seagate
	b. Prime, Apollo, Ardent, Stardent
	c. AT&T, Apollo, Honeywell-Bull

5. One computer company CEO is unlikely to leave his company. According to
Computer Reseller News, he is the highest paid executive in the computer
industry. Can you tell us his company and his name?

6. Compaq Computer Company made the Fortune 500 list in record time. How many
years did it take Compaq to break into the Fortune 500? Was it two years, four
years, or six years?

7. In desktop publishing we often refer to TIFF files. What do the letters in
TIFF stand for?

8. What was the first major movie to use computer-aided animation: Soylent
Green, Futureworld, or Star Wars?

9. The first use of the phrase "personal computer" was reportedly used to
describe a computer built at MIT by some hackers. It cost nearly $3 million
and it filled up one small room. What was the name of that personal computer?

10. What is the average annual sales volume for one salesperson in a typical
retail computer store? Is it $172,000, $222,000 or $272,000?

11. The first university to ever have a computer science department
celebrated its 25th anniversary last year. Was that university: Stanford,
Carnegie-Mellon, the University of North Carolina, or MIT?

12. How much is the decimal number 27 expressed in hexadecimal?

13. Speaking of numbers, what is the ASCII decimal equivalent for the Escape
key?

14. During World War II, the U.S. Army funded the development of the ENIAC
computer. What did the Army want to do with the computer? Was it to calculate
ballistic paths, decode secret messages, or design radar?

15. Hewlett-Packard calculators became famous for the unique approach they used
to perform operations on numbers. The system was called RPN. What does RPN
stand for?

ROUND THREE QUESTIONS

1. In 1968, the New York Stock Exchange listed its first computer software
company. What was the name of that company?

2. According to The Illustrated Handbook of Desktop Publishing, what is the
opposite of "letterspacing"?

3. The Mayans were pretty good mathematicians. They developed their own
numbering system but it was not a base ten system. What was their numbering
system based on -- was it 5, 12, or 20?

4. According to Electronic Learning magazine, as of 1988, which of the
following states required public school children to take at least one computer
course before graduating from high school? Texas, Massachusetts, or
California?

5. In 1971, the first home video game console was marketed using a patent
originally granted to Sanders Associates. The company that sold the game was
Magnavox. What was the name of the game?

6. At the 1939 New York World's Fair, the Westinghouse pavilion featured a
robot that could do housework. What was the name of the robot?

7. Texas Instruments developed the first popular microcomputer-based toy. What
was it called?

8. Immediately after the introduction of the IBM PC, the president of Apple
Computer and the head of IBM's PC division met for the first time. Where did
they meet?

9. If you were to hook up a MIDI interface, you would use a MIDI plug. How
many pins are in a MIDI plug?

10. MIDI has become a standard for the interface between a computer and a
musical instrument. What do the letters in MIDI stand for?

11. The Commodore PET computer was not named PET because it was thought of as
something to keep around the house. PET was an acronym. What do the letters
stand for?

12. When using a computer you might use a spooler. The word SPOOL is also an
acronym. What do the letters stand for?

13. In 1989, the Softletter newsletter ranked the top ten software companies
by revenue. The top five were Microsoft, Lotus, Ashton Tate, Wordperfect, and
Autodesk. Can you the name at least four of the other five companies on the
list?

14. The computer language Ada was named after a person. Who was it named
after?

15. The first issue of Dr. Dobb's Journal was devoted entirely to a single
computer language. What was it?

16. What was the predecessor of DBASE II called?

17. What famous computer pioneer designed the punch card machines used in the
1890 U.S. Census? Was it Babbage, Hollerith, or Lord Kelvin?

18. At least three software companies have renamed themselves after the names
of their leading products. Can you name up to three of the companies, giving
old names and new?

ROUND FOUR QUESTIONS

Some computers have become so famous in computer history that many people
even know where they were developed. I'll give you the name of the location,
you tell me what computer was developed there:

	1. The place is Harvard.

	2. The place is Iowa State College.

	3. The place was the Moore School in Philadelphia.

	4. The place was Bletchley Park in England.

	5. And finally, the place was the University of Illinois.
 
6. Who was quoted as saying the following in Byte magazine in 1983: "I wasn't
thrilled with the placement of those keys. But every place you pick to put
them is not a good place for somebody. The left-hand shift key is where it is
because we wanted to have the character-typing keys inside the control keys."
Was it Steve Jobs, Don Estridge, or Rod Canion?

7. Who wrote "The Mythical Man-Month", a famous book about IBM's OS/360?

Many successful computers have had somewhat less successful predecessors.
I'll name the successful computer, you name its predecessor:

	8. The Apple Macintosh.

	9. The DEC PDP-8.

	10. The IBM 360/90.

11. The term "desktop publishing" is now commonly used to describe the
creation of high quality print documents on a desktop computer. Who first
coined the phrase? Was it Jean Louis Gassee, Paul Brainerd, Bill Atkinson, or
John Warnock?

12. Most of us have heard the story of why we call something that interferes
with the proper operation of a computer a bug. Can you tell us what computer
pioneer discovered that bug?

13. Can you tell us what kind of bug it was?

14. In what computer did she find the bug?

15. What company owns Compuserve?

16. The "Kansas City Standard" was developed as a standard for what storage
medium?

17. An interlaced raster scan display monitor creates a picture by interlacing
odd lines and then even lines. If the full interlaced picture is called a
raster, what do you call one half of those lines?

18. Which of the following was not the name of a computer during the 1950s:
Leprechaun, Mobidic, Babbage, or MANIAC?

19. What do the letters in the word "EPROM" stand for?

20. Many computer companies were founded by two people, for example, Bill
Gates and Paul Allen at Microsoft. We will name the first partner; you name
the second. Digital Equipment Corporation: Ken Olsen and who?

21. Computer pioneer Charles Babbage was a close friend of a famous British
author who allegedly patterned a character in one of his novels after Babbage.
was the author Sir Walter Scott, John Galsworthy, or Charles Dickens?

22. Was the 68000 instruction set modeled after that of the IBM 360, the Data
General Nova, or the DEC PDP-11?

23. The original computer game "Adventure," featured a colossal cave and a
maze of twisty little passages. These and other memorable locations in the
game were inspired by actual cave formations in what state? Was it California,
Tennessee, or Alaska?

ANSWERS TO ROUND ONE

1. TRS-80, Commodore PET, Apple II

2. Intel, Xerox, DEC

3. 9.8%

4. Apple Computer

5. Breakout

6. Honeywell

7. Greece. It only came to China in 1200 AD.

8. 1982

9. Canon

10. PDP 11/70

11. The Banana Junior

12. IBM 6000

13. 1983

14. 1978

ANSWERS TO ROUND TWO

1. Snake scales

2. Bubbles

3. Shugart, Amdahl, Cray

4a. Al Shugart
 b. Bill Poduska
 c. Roland Pampell

5. John Sculley, Apple, $2.5 million

6. Four years

7. Tagged Image File Format

8. Futureworld, in 1976

9. TX-0. It wasn't really "built by hackers", though.

10. $372,000

11. The answer they were looking for was North Carolina, but that is
incorrect! The oldest computer science department in the US (and possibly the
world) is at Purdue University, founded in 1962.

12. 1B

13. 27

14. Calculate ballistic paths

15. Reverse Polish Notation

ANSWERS TO ROUND THREE

1. Computer Sciences Corporation

2. Kerning

3. 20

4. Texas

5. Odyssey

6. Electro

7. Speak and Spell

8. The Boston Computer Society

9. Five

10. Musical Instrument Digital Interface

11. Personal Electronic Transactor

12. Simultaneous Peripheral Operations On Line

13. Borland, Adobe, Aldus, Logitech, Software Publishing

14. Ada Lovelace, assistant to Charles Babbage

15. Tiny BASIC

16. Vulcan -- there never was a DBASE I

17. Herman Hollerith

18. SSI -> Wordperfect;	Micropro -> Wordstar; Relational Technology -> Ingres

ANSWERS TO ROUND FOUR

1. Mark I

2. Atanasoff-Berry Computer

3. ENIAC

4. Colossus

5. ILLIAC

6. Don Estridge of IBM (referring to IBM PC keyboard layout in Byte, 11/83)

7. Fred Brooks

8. Lisa

9. The PDP-5

10. The IBM Stretch

11. Paul Brainerd

12. Grace Hopper. Actually this use of "bug" considerably predates computing.

13. A moth

14. Harvard Mark II

15. H&R Block

16. Cassette tape

17. A field

18. Babbage

19. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory

20. Harlan Anderson

21. Charles Dickens

22. PDP-11

23. Tennessee



ROUND ONE QUESTIONS

1. The last two letters in the names of many early computers were "AC", as in
ILLIAC or ENIAC. What did the letters "AC" stand for?

2. How many data bits are there in the S-100 bus?

3. A computer language is named after a famous 17th century French
mathematician. What was his first or given name?

4. Almost 10 years ago, in October 1981, Steve Jobs appeared on the cover of
"Inc. Magazine". In that photo, was Jobs wearing a tee shirt, a bathing suit,
or a shirt and jacket?

5. In the 1959 movie "Desk Set", Katherine Hepburn and her staff are worried
they might be replaced by a computer being installed by Spencer Tracy. What
was the name of that computer? Was it EMORAC, Calla Lilly One, or UNIVAC?

6. In the 1950s a computer company was the sponsor of a TV quiz show. Was that
computer company IBM, RCA, Burroughs, or Remington Rand?

7. The quiz show was a well-known TV program at the time. Was it called "I've
Got A Secret", "What's My Line", or "Beat The Clock"?

8. In the mid 1970s, one of the first real personal computers was introduced.
The computer was named after a destination visited by the space ship
Enterprise on the program "Star Trek". What was the name of that destination,
and that computer? Was it IMSAI, SOL, Altair 8800, or Apple Two?

9. Who was the recipient of the first Turing Award? Was it John McCarthy,
Donald Knuth, Edgstra Dijkstra, or Alan Perlis?

10. What does the term "BITNET" stand for?

11. Punch cards were initially developed in 1801 by a textile mill owner to
automate the patterns woven into cloth by his textile loom. What was the name
of the individual who first developed this application?

12. There are mainly two layouts for a computer keyboard -- the QWERTY
keyboard and the Dvorak keyboard. However, several of the letters appear in
the same position on both keyboards. How many of the alphabetic keys appear in
the same place on both layouts? Is it two, four, six, or eight?

13. Can you tell me which are the two letters that are the same on both
keyboards?

14. The mouse has become a standard computer input device. Who invented the
mouse?

ROUND TWO QUESTIONS

1. Who composed the Chinese room problem in an attempt to prove that computers
can't think?

2. Some computer scientists are a bit odd -- one famous computer pioneer had a
hatred for street musicians. Was this Pascal, Leibnitz, or Babbage?

3. "High Sierra" is the name of a CD-ROM standard. What is the origin of that
name? Was it named after the chief designer's dog, a communications code word,
or a hotel?

4. What was the first machine with an Ethernet interface?

5. There is a computer company whos name is AST Research. The name of the
company came from the first initials of each of its three founders. Can you
give me their names?

6. It's almost a cliche that many Silicon Valley companies started out in a
garage. Of the following companies, which one did not start in a garage --
Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Televideo, or Sun?

7. One company that did start in a garage was Hewlett-Packard. The garage was
on a street in Palo Alto. The two men were Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard. What
was the name of the street?

8. Digital Research Incorporated is often referred to as DRI. But in fact,
when it was first formed it was called IDR. What did the letters stand for?

9. Which of the following was named after a person -- heap sort, quick sort,
shell sort, or bubble sort?

10. What do the letters BCD stand for?

11. Before Seymour Cray cofounded Control Data, he was a computer engineer at
what company -- Sperry Rand, IBM, or Honeywell?

12. What was the first encyclopedia to appear in CD-ROM form?

13. Three computer companies have the word "Packard" in their names. Can you
name those three companies?

14. Ada Lovelace is often referred to as the first programmer. But her
father's occupation had nothing to do with computers or math. What did Ada
Lovelace's father do for a living?

15. A book entitled "Who Got Einstein's Office?" is about an institution where
a lot of early computer research was done. What is the institution?

16. What book containing a bird's name is about illegal break-ins on computer
networks?

17. The Book of the Month Club recently offered a new novel based on a
computer theme. What was the name of the book -- was it "Goodbye Mr. Mips",
"The Open Window Version 3.0", or "The Difference Engine"?

18. Kurt Vonnegut once wrote a short story about a computer that wrote poetry
and then eventually committed suicide. What was the name of that computer --
was it called EPICAC, MYCIN, or Dresden?

ROUND THREE QUESTIONS

1. [holding up comptometer] This is a comptometer from The Computer Museum.
The question is -- who developed the adding system for this machine? Was it
Pascal, Leibniz, or Babbage?

2. The bit is a very common and important computer term. Who first used the
word bit? Was it John Tukey, Donald Knuth, or John McCarthy?

3. LOGO has been a popular educational language for children. Who created
LOGO?

4. Atari is the name of a personal computer company, but it is also a word in
the Japanese language. What does Atari mean?

5. Among the early machines in the history on computers were the ENIAC, the
ILLIAC, and the MANIAC. MANIAC was an acronym for mechanical and numerical
integrator and computer. The question is -- where was the MANIAC built? Los
Alamos, Livermore, or Cambridge, Mass.?

6. The word Sun in the company name Sun Microsystems is an acronym. What do
the letters SUN stand for?

7. For years, BASIC was one of the most commonly used programming languages
for personal computers. The word BASIC is an acronym. What do the letters
stand for?

8. PLATO is the name of an educational software environment. PLATO is an
acronym. What does it stand for?

9. In August 1981, nearly 10 years ago, a major new personal computer was
introduced. What was the computer?

10. If you wanted to square all the integers from 1 to 10,000 -- which
computer would you pick to get the job done most quickly? The TRS-80 Model I
or the ENIAC?

11. While today we talk about the 80386 and the 80486 Intel processors, one of
the earliest Intel chips was the lowly 4004. What was the first commercial
application of the 4004? Was it used in an early personal computer, a factory
process controller, a Japanese calculator, or a frequency modulator?

12. What do you call a local area network method that routes messages through
each workstation on the network in turn?

13. 3COM is a well-known name in the local area network field. The company
name is short form three separate words, each of which begin with the prefix
"COM". What are those three words?

14. The database program DBASE IV is an upgrade of DBASE III, which is an
upgrade of DBASE II. For what operating system was DBASE II originally
written?

15. Deep Thought is now considered to be one of the world's best chess-playing
computers. But way back in 1967, a computer, for the first time, beat a
serious chess player during a state chess tournament in Massachusetts. The
computer's designer was Richard Greenblatt. What was the name of the computer?
Was it BORIS, Matemaster, Mac Hack IV, or EN PASSANT?

16. In 1679 a famous mathematician perfected the binary system of notation.
Who was that mathematician?

17. Arcade-style video games are often thought of as male oriented. Yet a
woman named Dona Bailey designed one of the most successful video games. Which
game was it -- Centipede, Tempest, or Ms. Pac-Man?

18. According to an article in IEEE Spectrum magazine, what was the first
video game to become popular with women players as well as men?

19. Computer Space, Pong, Spacewar, and Space Race are all names of computer
video games. Which of these, in 1970, became the first commercial video arcade
game?

20. A byte is usually defined as eight bits. What is the term for four bits?

21. The haloid process describes a process in which of the following
activities: manufacturing ICs, soldering components, or photocopying?

22. What color is the stripe painted on the raised floor of the machine room
in the AI Lab at MIT?

23. While working at Xerox, Gary Starkweather is credited with inventing the
laser printer. When did that happen? Was it 1969, 1973, or 1977?

24. I'll give you two names. You tell me in what field they do research:
Berliner and Schank.

ROUND FOUR QUESTIONS

1. One piece of technology that has never quite made it is the picture phone.
When and where was the picture phone first displayed? Was it the 1939 New York
World's Fair, the 1962 Seattle World's Fair, or the 1964 New York World's
Fair?

2. Which of the following machines is not a binary machine? Atanasoff Machine,
Bell Labs One, UNIVAC, or CDC 1604?

3. How many jobs can an IBM S/360 computer execute at once?

4. John von Neumann is a well-known pioneer in the computer field. In what
area did he get his first college degree? Was it chemical engineering,
electrical engineering, or mechanical engineering?

5. What do the following three things have in common? BORIS, SHRDLU, MYCIN?

6. Roger Penrose wrote a book about artificial intelligence. What was its
title?

7. There are several expert systems which have been developed for a variety of
application areas. I'll name the expert system, you name the author.

	a. Hearsay
	b. MYCIN
	c. Dendral

8. What was the name of the first artificial intelligence program? Was it
called The Logical Theorist, Logician, or QWERTYUIOP?

9. When the original Macintosh computer first came out, how much RAM did it
have?

10. Where is the Charles Babbage Institute located? Is it in London,
Washington D.C., or Minneapolis?

11. Here are three words -- MILLIAC, DILLIAC, and SILLIAC. One of those words
was the name of a computer. Which one?

12. The computer magazine "ANTIC" is devoted to coverage of computers made by
what manufacturer?

13. There is a famous vignette in which a well-known computer pioneer says
"Let me show you a nanosecond" and the person holds up a short length of wire.
Who is that computer pioneer?

14. In 1936, a paper that was perhaps the most important in the history of
computer science was published. It was titled "On Computable Numbers". Who was
the author?

15. The names of the people who worked on the development of a famous personal
computer were etched on the inside of its case. What was the computer?

16. If you were using Lotus 1-2-3 and you wanted to center a label, what label
prefix would you use? Would it be -- a caret, a quote, an apostrophe, or a
back slash?

17. If you were using WordPerfect and the letters "POS" are blinking on the
screen, what does that tell you?

18. What are the three operating modes of Windows 3.0?

19. We all know the term DOS, short for disk operating system. But there was
also an operating system called SOS. What did the letters "SOS" stand for?

20. On what microcomputer was SOS used?

21. If I were configuring a peripheral and I entered the following input:
"1200 N 8 1" -- what kind of peripheral would I be configuring?

22. On an external modem there are usually several LED indicators to provide
you with feedback on what the modem is doing. Can you tell me what these
indicators stand for: CD, OH, AA?

23. Computer pioneer Charles Babbage was interested in many different kinds of
inventions. According to the book "Digital Deli", Babbage tried to invent
which one of the following gadgets: a portable steam engine, a cotton candy
machine, or shoes for walking on water?

ANSWERS TO ROUND ONE

1. Automatic Computer

2. Eight

3. Blaise -- his last name was Pascal

4. Shirt and jacket

5. EMORAC

6. Remington Rand

7. What's My Line

8. Altair 8800

9. Alan Perlis, 1966

10. Because It's Time Network

11. Joseph Marie Jacquard

12. Two

13. A and M

14. Doug Engelbart

ANSWERS TO ROUND TWO

1. John Searle

2. Babbage

3. Hotel -- Del Webb's High Sierra Hotel and Casino

4. The Alto

5. Albert Wong, Safi Qureshey, Tom Yuen

6. Sun

7. Addison Street

8. Intergalactic Digital Research

9. Shell sort

10. Binary coded decimal

11. Sperry Rand

12. Grolier's

13. Hewlett-Packard, Packard-Bell, Ferranti-Packard

14. He was a poet -- Lord Byron

15. Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton

16. "The Cuckoo's Egg"

17. "The Difference Engine"

18. EPICAC

ANSWERS TO ROUND THREE

1. Pascal

2. John Tukey

3. Seymour Papert

4. It means warning or check, from the game of Go

5. Los Alamos

6. Stanford University Network

7. Beginner's All-Purpose Symbolic Instruction Code

8. Programmed Logic for Automatic Teaching Operations

9. IBM PC

10. TRS-80 Mode I in 0.66 seconds vs 6.00 seconds

11. Japanese calculator

12. Ring network

13. Communications, computers, compatibility

14. CP/M

15. Mac Hack IV

16. Gottfried Willhelm Leibnitz

17. Centipede, for Atari

18. Pac-Man

19. Computer Space

20. A nibble

21. Photocopying

22. Yellow

23. 1969

24. Artificial intelligence

ANSWERS TO ROUND FOUR

1. 1964 New York World's Fair

2. UNIVAC

3. One

4. Chemical engineering

5. They are all AI programs

6. "The Emperor's New Mind"

7. Hearsay -- Raj Reddy
   MYCIN   -- Edward Shortlife
   DENDRAL -- Edward Feigenbaum

8. Logical Theorist

9. 128k

10. Minneapolis

11. SILLIAC

12. Atari

13. Grace Murray Hopper

14. Alan Turing

15. Macintosh

16. Caret

17. Num lock is on

18. Standard, Real, Enhanced (or 386 Enhanced)

19. Sophisticated Operating System

20. Apple II

21. A modem -- 1200 bps, no parity, 8 data bits, 1 stop bit

22. Carrier detect, off hook, auto answer

23. Shoes for walking on water